---
Title: New Outdoor Monitor
Date: February 17 2026
Slug: new-outdoor-monitor
---

The air quality monitoring project is officially up and running. I’m currently starting with an indoor setup, with a full-scale outdoor station coming as soon as my remaining parts arrive (and assuming my soldering skills are up to par!). Here's a brief rundown on what I'm working on and the future outlook.
## What I'm tracking
 I'm just waiting for a few parts to arrive from China and if all goes well, I'll be able to deploy and outdoor climate and pollution monitor.  You'll be able to see real-time data in Siem Reap, Cambodia such as:
 
- **Particulate Matter:** PM 1.0, 2.5, and 10.
- **Environment:** Temperature and Humidity.
## Brief overview of PM 2.5
PM (Particulate Matter) 2.5 is the most critical pollutant that should be monitored for your health. The 2.5 refers to the size of the particulate matter, measured in microns. At this size, particles can enter your blood stream and they come from sources like vehicle emissions and industrial processing. Other causes of PM 2.5 that are especially present here in Siem Reap is the burning of garbage, rice fields, and even barbecues. I'll write more on this later.
## Note on the current low readings
If you see the PM or AQI hovering near 0, it’s likely because my windows are shut and the air purifiers are doing their job!
## The sensors home
The station is currently located at my apartment in **Siem Reap**. It’s shaded and set back from the main road, which helps avoid "false spikes" from passing motorbikes, though the local humidity might occasionally influence the readings.
## Future plans
This is just Phase 1. I’m planning to integrate "Feels Like" temperatures, UV index, wind data, and historical graphs to track pollution trends over time.





